chore(#1658): add openmrs and ltfu docs (#1657)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/building/guides/interoperability/openhim.md

---
title: "OpenHIM Mediators"
linkTitle: "OpenHIM Mediators"
weight: 2
description: >
   Guide to running OpenHIM and Mediators with Docker Compose
keywords: openmrs interoperability
relatedContent: >
  building/guides/interoperability/cht-config
  building/guides/interoperability/ltfu
  building/concepts/interoperability/
  building/guides/integrations/openmrs/
---

> #### Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Overview
```

The components and reference information for interoperability used in CHT Interoperability project are:

- [OpenHIE](https://ohie.org/) defines the architecture for an interoperability layer.
- [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org/) is a middleware component designed to ease interoperability between systems.
- [HL7 FHIR](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/index.html) is a messaging format to allow all systems to understand the format of the message.

> #### CHT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Interoperability with the CHT
```

![](flow.png)

CHT Interoperability uses OpenHIM as the middleware component with [Mediators](http://openhim.org/docs/configuration/mediators/) to do the conversion. [Outbound Push]({{< ref "building/reference/app-settings/outbound" >}}) is configured to make a request to the middleware when relevant documents are created or modified in the CHT. A Mediator then creates a FHIR resource which is then routed to OpenHIM. OpenHIM routes the resource to any other configured systems.

Conversely, to bring data into the CHT, OpenHIM is configured to route the updated resource to the Mediator, which then calls the relevant [CHT APIs]({{< ref "building/reference/api" >}}) to update the document in the CHT database. This will then be replicated to users’ devices as per usual.

See more information on the [CHT interoperability page]({{< ref "building/concepts/interoperability" >}}).

### Prerequisites

- `docker`

> - `Postman` or similar tool for API testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Postman` or similar tool for API testing.
- [cht-interoperability](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability) GitHub repository (can be cloned via `git clone https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability`).
```

> ### Install & First Time Run

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{% alert title="Note" %}} 
Users getting errors when running the following installation steps, please see the [Troubleshooting guide]({{< ref "#troubleshooting" >}}).
{{% /alert %}}

### Install & First Time Run
```

> 1. Run `./startup.sh init` to start-up the docker containers on the first run or after calling `./startup.sh destroy`. Use `./startup.sh up` for subsequent runs after calling `init` without calling `destroy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the cht-interoperability folder, run `./startup.sh init` to start up the docker containers on the first run or after calling `./startup.sh destroy`. Use `./startup.sh up` for subsequent runs after calling `init` without calling `destroy`.
```

### OpenHIM Admin Console

1. Visit the OpenHIM Admin Console at http://localhost:9000 and login with the following credentials: email - `interop@openhim.org` and password - `interop-password`. The default User username for OpenHIM is `interop@openhim.org` and password is `interop-password`. The default Client username is `interop-client` and password is `interop-password`.

> 1. Once logged in, visit [http://localhost:9000/#!/mediators](http://localhost:9000/#!/mediators) and select the only mediator with the `Name` 'Loss to Follow Up Mediator'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once logged in, visit [http://localhost:9000/#!/mediators](http://localhost:9000/#!/mediators) and select the only mediator with the `Name` "Loss to Follow Up Mediator".
```

1. Select the green `+` button to the right of the default channel to add the mediator.

1. You can test the mediator by running:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:5001/mediator -H "Authorization: Basic $(echo -n interop-client:interop-password | base64)"
```

You should get as a response:

```json
{ "status": "success" }
```

If everything is successful you should see this:

<img src="good-client-screen.png" width="600">

### CHT configuration with Docker

> The following steps apply when running CHT via the Docker setup provided in this repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps apply when running CHT via the Docker setup provided in the cht-interoperability repository:
```

1. CHT can be accessed via `http://localhost:5988`, and the credentials are `medic`/`password`.
2. Create a new user in the CHT instance with the username `interop-client` using these [instructions]({{< ref "building/contact-management/contact-and-users-1#4-create-the-chw-user" >}}). For the role you can select `Data entry` and `Analytics` roles. Please note that you can use any username you prefer but you would have to update the config with the new username. You can do that by editing the `cht-config/app_settings.json` file and updating the `username` value in the `outbound` object e.g. on this [line](https://github.com/medic/interoperability/blob/main/cht-config/app_settings.json#L452).

> 3. Securely save the `interop-client` user's password to the database using the instructions [here]({{< ref "building/reference/api#credentials" >}}). Change the values `mykey` and `my pass` to `openhim1` and your user's password respectively. An example of the curls request is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Securely save the `interop-client` user's password to the database using the instructions [here]({{< ref "building/reference/api#credentials" >}}). Change the values `mykey` and `my pass` to `openhim1` and your user's password respectively. An example of the curl request is below:
```

#### CHT Development Environment

1. Set up a local CHT instance using [these instructions]({{< ref "building/local-setup" >}}).
2. Create a new user in the CHT instance with the username `interop-client` using these [instructions]({{< ref "building/contact-management/contact-and-users-1#4-create-the-chw-user" >}}). For the role you can select `Data entry` and `Analytics` roles. Please note that you can use any username you prefer but you would have to update the config with the new username. You can do that by editing the `cht-config/app_settings.json` file and updating the `username` value in the `outbound` object e.g. on this [line](https://github.com/medic/interoperability/blob/main/cht-config/app_settings.json#L452).
3. Securely save the `interop-client` user's password to the database using the instructions [here]({{< ref "building/reference/api#credentials" >}}). Change the values `mykey` and `my pass` to `openhim1` and your user's password respectively. An example of the curls request is below:

```bash
curl -X PUT -H "Content-Type: text/plain" http://medic:password@localhost:5988/api/v1/credentials/openhim1 -d 'interop-password'
```

> 4. After updating the mediator code or cht configuration, you need to run `./startup.sh up-dev` to upload the changes to docker compose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After updating the mediator code or the CHT configuration, you need to run `./startup.sh up-dev` to upload the changes to docker compose.
```

---
title: "OpenHIM Mediators"
linkTitle: "OpenHIM Mediators"
weight:
description: >
   Guide to running OpenHIM and Mediators with Docker Compose
keywords: openmrs interoperability
relatedContent: >
  building/guides/interoperability/cht_config
  building/guides/interoperability/ltfu_reference_workflow
  building/guides/interoperability/troubleshooting
  building/concepts/interoperability/
  building/guides/integrations/openmrs/
---

#### Overview

The components and reference information for interoperability used in this project are:

- [OpenHIE](https://ohie.org/) defines the architecture for an interoperability layer.
- [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org/) is a middleware component designed to ease interoperability between systems.
- [HL7 FHIR](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/index.html) is a messaging format to allow all systems to understand the format of the message.

#### CHT

> The structure of documents in the CHT database reflect the configuration of the system, and therefore do not map directly to a FHIR message format. To achieve interoperability we used a middleware to convert the CHT data structure into a standardized form so the other systems can read it. Below is the standard data workflow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The structure of documents in the CHT database reflect the configuration of the system, and therefore do not map directly to a FHIR message format. To achieve interoperability Medic used a middleware to convert the CHT data structure into a standardized form so the other systems can read it. Below is the standard data workflow:
```

https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/docs/style-guide/#using-we

> The structure of documents in the CHT database reflect the configuration of the system, and therefore do not map directly to a FHIR message format. To achieve interoperability Medic used a middleware to convert the CHT data structure into a standardized form so the other systems can read it. Below is the standard data workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of documents in the CHT database reflects the configuration of the system, and therefore, does not map directly to a FHIR message format. To achieve interoperability, the CHT uses a middleware to convert the CHT data structure into a standardized form so the other systems can read it. Below is the standard data workflow:
```

![](flow.png)

> This project uses OpenHIM as the middleware component with [Mediators](http://openhim.org/docs/configuration/mediators/) to do the conversion. [Outbound Push](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/reference/app-settings/outbound/) is configured to make a request to the middleware when relevant documents are created or modified in the CHT. A Mediator then creates a FHIR resource which is then routed to OpenHIM. OpenHIM routes the resource to any other configured systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CHT Interoperability uses OpenHIM as the middleware component with [Mediators](http://openhim.org/docs/configuration/mediators/) to do the conversion. [Outbound Push](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/reference/app-settings/outbound/) is configured to make a request to the middleware when relevant documents are created or modified in the CHT. A Mediator then creates a FHIR resource, which is then routed to OpenHIM. OpenHIM routes the resource to any other configured systems.
```

Conversely, to bring data into the CHT, OpenHIM is configured to route the updated resource to the Mediator, which then calls the relevant [CHT APIs](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/reference/api/) to update the document in the CHT database. This will then be replicated to users’ devices as per usual.

> See more information on the [CHT interoperability](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/concepts/interoperability/) page on the CHT documentation site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See more information on the [CHT interoperability page](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/apps/concepts/interoperability/).
```

### Prerequisites

- `docker`

> - `Postman` or similar tool for API testing. This will play the role of the `Requesting System` from the sequence diagram above.

Reviewer 2: The diagram linked on line 28 is not the form submission sequence diagram. Do we need the second sentence?

### Install & First Time Run

1. Run `./startup.sh init` to start-up the docker containers on the first run or after calling `./startup.sh destroy`. Use `./startup.sh up` for subsequent runs after calling `init` without calling `destroy`.

### OpenHIM Admin Console

1. Visit the OpenHIM Admin Console at http://localhost:9000 and login with the following credentials: email - `interop@openhim.org` and password - `interop-password`. The default User username for OpenHIM is `interop@openhim.org` and password is `interop-password`. The default Client username is `interop-client` and password is `interop-password`.

1. Once logged in, visit [http://localhost:9000/#!/mediators](http://localhost:9000/#!/mediators) and select the only mediator with the `Name` 'Loss to Follow Up Mediator'.

1. Select the green `+` button to the right of the default channel to add the mediator.

1. You can test the mediator by running:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:5001/mediator -H "Authorization: Basic $(echo -n interop-client:interop-password | base64)"
```

You should get as a response:

```json
{ "status": "success" }
```

If everything is successful you should see this:

> <img src="good-client-screen.png" width="600">

Reviewer: I don't get the same roles (`admin` is missing from what I see). I updated the screenshot in [this PR](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability/pull/153).
